##Navigating Frontend Code
Finding the relevant controller or HTML at times can be almost impossible at times, the key is to use the app.js' state definitions section to serve as a hub for getting to other things in the application. When you know the path/URL of a state, find the state definition with that path and that will lead you to the appropriate controller and partial files. Use a similar approach when you know only the partial file or the controller.

##File Structure
###/hooks
Cordova scripts are in here. Automatically generated by Cordova and related plugins. Files in folder may change when installing/removing plugins, but otherwise should not be changed and may indicate other issues.

Hooks can be created to run scripts after certain actions, for example, by Cordova or Git. Refer to [Frontend Hooks Docs](Frontend-Hooks.md) for more details about we use hooks.

###/plugins
In this directory reside all installed Cordova plugins. Should NOT be committed to Github NOR modified manually.

###/platforms
In this directory reside all installed Cordova platforms. Should NOT be committed to Github NOR modified manually.

###/scss
This directory is used for [SCSS](http://sass-lang.com/) and will contain a SCSS file that is automatically compiled during an `ionic serve`. This requires that gulp and related utils be locally installed (with NPM) in order for the compile to work.
####[REFERENCE - Ionic SASS Guide](http://ionicframework.com/docs/cli/sass.html)

This is only used for Ionic applications such as Volunteer Management App.

###/config.xml
This config file is for Cordova and contains the version number, application name, bundle ID, and other Cordova configuration items for the application. It will also contain a listing of icons, splash screens which should never be modified by hand, but generated via [ionic resources](http://ionicframework.com/docs/cli/icon-splashscreen.html), a icon and splash screen generation utility.

###/bower.json
This file contains a listing of third party plugins and libraries used in the JavaScript. It is generally a good idea to "fix" the version of the libraries at the time of production to ensure that a build will work consistently.

Git repositories can be added into bower to be pulled into the appropriate folder.

Performing a `bower install {PACKAGE_NAME}` with `--save` appended will add the library to the bower.json automatically.

###/package.json
This file contains a listing of node/npm modules that are used and are automatically downloaded and installed to /node_modules when `npm install` is run.

###/ionic.project
This file needs to be present in order to define a project as an ionic project. Occassionally, we will drop this file into a non-ionic project in order to be able to use `ionic serve` command for live refresh during development.

###/www/
Contains all application code. This is where you will spend the majority of your time working on the application. Guide for organization in future [here](http://cliffmeyers.com/blog/2013/4/21/code-organization-angularjs-javascript) or [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1XXMvReO8-Awi1EZXAXS4PzDzdNvV6pGcuaF4Q9821Es/pub). Current organization of files is described below.

###/www/index.html
All packages that are installed via bower must be referenced in a script tag here in order to be loaded in the front-end application when the application is loaded in the HTML or mobile application.

####/www/css
Contains files generated by SCSS/SASS - DO NOT CHANGE THESE (ionic.app.css/ionic.app.min.css) here but use `/scss/ionic.app.scss`. Also certain applications may contain custom styles which are also present here which can be edited.

####/www/dist and /www/bower_components
All packages installed via `bower install` will be located in the /www/bower_components folder as specified in /.bowerrc file. For VMA selective files have been copied to /www/dist/ in order to save file space and only upload necessary files to Github. The bower_components (or lib in other projects) folder should be [.gitignore](http://git-scm.com/docs/gitignore)d.

####/www/img/
Image files go here. Do not include files of large space, use the right file type as required. SVGs are good.

####/www/modules/
Contains DASH developed or modified modules/packages from other repositories such as [this](https://github.com/DataAnalyticsinStudentHands/Modules) and modules that cannot be installed via bower. Sometimes we will take a package (ngNotify) and modify it to suit the needs of the application.

####/www/partials/
Contains HTML files that are brought in as needed to display on the app. They are templates and parts of pages and used by Angular JS as defined in the Angular UI-Router(setup in /www/js/app.js) or ng-include.

####/www/js/
Contains all JS files.

#####/www/js/app.js
First AngularJS file that is run.

Reason: module defined in this file (i.e. angular.module('xyz')) is included in the ng-app directive in the index.html to cause AngularJS library to start from here.

Config Section

Sets up UI-Router states that the app can navigate to. Each state defines the views and associated controllers to be loaded. Refer to [AngularJS UI-Router Documentation](http://angular-ui.github.io/ui-router/site/#/api/ui.router).

Run Section

Code that is run before the rest of the application is initialized. Used to define authentication and other necessary variables that are needed throughout the application.

#####/www/js/controllers.js
All application controllers are in this very large file. Refer to [this](https://docs.angularjs.org/guide/controller) (important read for knowing the purpose of a controller) for more details on AngularJS controllers. Controllers can be loaded via the ng-controller in the HTML (partial) or as defined the UI-Router state definitions.

#####/www/js/services.js
All application services are in this very large file. Refer to [this](https://docs.angularjs.org/guide/services) (important read for knowing the purpose of a service) for more details on AngularJS services.

Services are currently being used to a) load data from the JAVA Backend server using the [Restangular (docs)](https://github.com/mgonto/restangular) module and b) process data in before it can be passed to the controllers and used throughout the application.

#####/www/js/filters.js
AngularJS filters are located here. [AngularJS filters doc](https://docs.angularjs.org/guide/filter)

#####/www/js/native.js
Native JS code (non-angular) code is located here, some of it is no longer in use. It is intended to house poly fill JS code and define constants, or work with Cordova in a way that is not Angular friendly.

#####/www/js/directives.js
Application directives here. [guide on directives](https://docs.angularjs.org/guide/directive). We use a ton of directives throughout the HTML that aren't defined here because they are either a part of core Angular or part of another package usually ng-* in the HTML means it's a Angular directive and ui-* means it's a UI-Router directive, but there are many more that are parts of other packages.