##Navigating FormBuilder Code
Finding the relevant controller or HTML at times can be almost impossible at times, the key is to use the app.js' state definitions section to serve as a hub for getting to other things in the application. When you know the path/URL of a state, find the state definition with that path and that will lead you to the appropriate controller and partial files. Use a similar approach when you know only the partial file or the controller.

##File Structure
###/hooks
Cordova scripts are in here. Automatically generated by Cordova and related plugins. Files in folder may change when installing/removing plugins, but otherwise should not be changed and may indicate other issues.

Hooks can be created to run scripts after certain actions, for example, by Cordova or Git. Refer to [Frontend Hooks Docs](https://github.com/DataAnalyticsinStudentHands/DASH-Documentation/blob/master/Code%20Development/Frontend/Frontend-Hooks.md) for more details about we use hooks.

###/plugins
In this directory reside all installed Cordova plugins. Should NOT be committed to Github NOR modified manually.

###/platforms
In this directory reside all installed Cordova platforms. Should NOT be committed to Github NOR modified manually.

###/scss
This directory is used for [SCSS](http://sass-lang.com/) and will contain a SCSS file that is automatically compiled during an `ionic serve`. This requires that gulp and related utils be locally installed (with NPM) in order for the compile to work.
####[REFERENCE - Ionic SASS Guide](http://ionicframework.com/docs/cli/sass.html)

This is only used for Ionic applications such as Volunteer Management App.

###/config.xml
This config file is for Cordova and contains the version number, application name, bundle ID, and other Cordova configuration items for the application. It will also contain a listing of icons, splash screens which should never be modified by hand, but generated via [ionic resources](http://ionicframework.com/docs/cli/icon-splashscreen.html), a icon and splash screen generation utility.

###/bower.json
This file contains a listing of third party plugins and libraries used in the JavaScript. It is generally a good idea to "fix" the version of the libraries at the time of production to ensure that a build will work consistently.

Git repositories can be added into bower to be pulled into the appropriate folder.

Performing a `bower install {PACKAGE_NAME}` with `--save` appended will add the library to the bower.json automatically.

###/package.json
This file contains a listing of node/npm modules that are used and are automatically downloaded and installed to /node_modules when `npm install` is run.

###/ionic.project
This file needs to be present in order to define a project as an ionic project. Occasionally, we will drop this file into a non-ionic project in order to be able to use `ionic serve` command for live refresh during development.

###/www/
Contains all application code. This is where you will spend the majority of your time working on the application. Guide for organization [here](http://cliffmeyers.com/blog/2013/4/21/code-organization-angularjs-javascript) or [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1XXMvReO8-Awi1EZXAXS4PzDzdNvV6pGcuaF4Q9821Es/pub). Current organization of files is described below, may be refined as projects grow. A general rule of thumb is that if a module exceeds 7-10 files in a directory, the module should be considered for a split. 

###/www/index.html
All packages that are installed via bower AND all module JS files must be referenced in a script tag here in order to be loaded in the front-end application when the application is loaded in the HTML or mobile application.

####/www/css
Contains files generated by SCSS/SASS - DO NOT CHANGE: (ionic.app.css/ionic.app.min.css) here but use `/scss/ionic.app.scss`. Also certain applications may contain custom styles which are also present here which can be edited.

####/www/dist and /www/bower_components
All packages installed via `bower install` will be located in the /www/bower_components folder as specified in /.bowerrc file. For VMA selective files have been copied to /www/dist/ in order to save file space and only upload necessary files to Github. The bower_components (or lib in other projects) folder should be [.gitignore](http://git-scm.com/docs/gitignore)d.

####/www/img/
Image files go here. Do not include files of large space, use the right file type as required. SVGs are good.

####/www/module/
Contains DASH developed or modified modules/packages from other repositories such as [this](https://github.com/DataAnalyticsinStudentHands/Modules) and modules that cannot be installed via bower. Sometimes we will take a package (ngNotify) and modify it to suit the needs of the application.

####/www/module/
Contains core module and dependency modules for the application.

#####/www/module/core
The core module is the main module that is the "application" module bootstrapped in the `index.html`. Contains dependencies to other modules.

#####/www/module/[MODULE_NAME]
Generally contains a [mod_name].module.js that contains the module definition and added [mod_name].controller/directive/service.js files for additional parts of the module. Each JS file must be listed in the index.html to be loaded.

Required HTML files for the module are placed in this folder.