# One Wireless Mic

1. From the "Audio" drawer get a wireless mic, a receiver, a receiver power supply (labeled RCVR), and a large jack audio cable. They should match (e.g. RCVR 2 and MIC 2, LAPEL and LAPEL). Check the batteries on the mic by pressing and holding the power button on the bottom. Unscrew the handle to reveal the batteries.
2. Set up the mic podium as normal without the actual wired mic. Power the receiver, connect the receiver to the podium "WIRED MIC" port with the large jack, raise the antennas on the receiver and set it inside the podium.
3. In the mic battery compartment, you will see a spinnable arrow pointing to some numbers. There should be a small screwdriver in one of the mics (we have lost all but one). Use it to make the arrow point to the channel number that matches the receiver channel. You can also change the receiver channel with the select button. DO NOT LOSE THE SCREWDRIVER.
4. Turn the mic on and check volume levels. Turn it off to save battery power and instruct the speaker how to turn it on and off (press and hold the button on the bottom).

# More than One Wireless Mic

1. We have three wireless mics and a lapel. From the "Audio" drawer get your mics, the matching receivers (check labels), a male-to-female three-prong audio cable and a RCVR power supply for each mic, one large audio jack cable, a powerstrip, and the XENYX2012FX soundboard along with its power supply from above the "Audio" drawer. Check the batteries on the mic by pressing and holding the power button on the bottom. Unscrew the handle to reveal the batteries.
2. Set up the mic podium as normal with or without the wired mic, if you need it. Power the soundboard (in the powerstrip so that it is surge protected) and connect the "main out" port (L or R) to the "dynamic microphone" port on the podium via the large audio jack. Power the receivers, raise their antennas and connect them to the soundboard via the three-prong cables. Make sure they are set to different channels. It does not matter if you stack them.
3. For each mic, in the battery compartment, you will see a spinnable arrow pointing to some numbers. There should be a small gray plastic screwdriver in one of the mics (we have lost all but one). Use it to make each arrow point to the channel number that matches the channel number of that mic's matching receiver. You can also change the receiver channels with the select buttons. **_DO NOT LOSE THE SCREWDRIVER._**
4. There are several ways to adjust volume. There is the podium knob, the row of white knobs at the bottom of the soundboard, and the gray slider at the right of the soundboard. You should not have to adjust anything else, so make all other knobs point straight up. First, turn the knob on the podium to a normal level (2 or 3) and put the slider at the halfway point, then adjust the white knob next to the slider so that it points straight up. Turn the mics on and adjust their individual volume levels using the white knobs at the bottom of their input level columns (under the three-prong ports).
5. If there is squealing or humming, ensure that the mics are not next to metal or something that will cause interference. If that is not the problem, lower the main volume using either the slider or the knob on the podium and increase the individual input volumes with the white knobs. Turn mics off to save battery power and instruct the speakers how to turn them on and off (press and hold the button on the bottom).

TIP: you may want to print this page to help you set up.
